---
title: Presenters
---

### Presenters[](#the-basics/presenters)

Presenters help you organize view layer (presentation) logic for the objects. Logic in the `presenter` should _only_ be for display purposes.

An important secondary purpose for presenters is to map the decorated object's API in a clean way for views. This is why the `__get` method has logic in it which you'll read about further down.

<div class="alert alert-info">**Note:** All **presentable** objects including entry models and collections are automatically decorated with a presenter in the view layer.</div>


#### Basic Usage[](#the-basics/presenters/basic-usage)

The `\Robbo\Presenter\PresentableInterface` interface tells the Streams Platform that the class is `presentable` and has a `getPresenter` method. By default `getPresenter` return an instance of `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Support\Presenter` or the nearest presenter to the class.

    public function newPresenter()
    {
        return new Presenter($this);
    }


##### Presenter::getObject()[](#the-basics/presenters/basic-usage/presenter-getobject)

The `getObject` returns the decorated object instance.

###### Returns: `mixed`

###### Example

    $presenter->getObject();

###### Twig

    {{ presenter.getObject() }}

<div class="alert alert-primary">**Pro Tip:** This method is very useful when working with API objects in the view layer where the **instance** is generally required and not the **presenter**.</div>


##### Presenter::__get()[](#the-basics/presenters/basic-usage/presenter-get)

The `__get` magic method will look for the following available methods in order from top to bottom and return the first matching scenario:

###### Check the presenter for a method where the method is the camel case of the `{attribute_name}`.

    $presenter->display_name; // Returns: $presenter->displayName();

    {{ presenter.display_name }} // Returns: {{ presenter.displayName() }}

###### Check the presenter for a getter method where the method is the camel case of `get_{attribute_name}`.

    $presenter->display_name; // Returns: $presenter->getDisplayName();

    {{ presenter.display_name }} // Returns: {{ presenter.getDisplayName() }}

###### Check the presenter for a getter method where the method is the camel case of `is_{attribute_name}`.

    $presenter->enabled; // Returns: $presenter->isEnabled();

    {{ presenter.enabled }} // Returns: {{ presenter.isEnabled() }}

###### Check the decorated object for a getter method where the method is the camel case of `get_{attribute_name}`.

    $presenter->display_name; // Returns: $presenter->getObject()->getDisplayName();

    {{ presenter.display_name }} // Returns: {{ presenter.getObject().getDisplayName() }}

###### Check the decorated object for a boolean getter method where the method is the camel case of `is_{attribute_name}`.

    $presenter->enabled; // Returns: $presenter->getObject()->isEnabled();

    {{ presenter.enabled }} // Returns: {{ presenter.getObject().isEnabled() }}

###### Check the decorated object for a method where the method is the camel case of the `{attribute_name}`.

    $presenter->display_name; // Returns: $presenter->getObject()->displayName();

    {{ presenter.display_name }} // Returns: {{ presenter.getObject().displayName() }}

###### Check the decorated object for a getter style hook where the hook is `get_{attribute_name}`.

    $presenter->display_name; // Returns: $presenter->getObject()->call('get_display_name');

    {{ presenter.display_name }} // Returns: {{ presenter.getObject().call('get_display_name') }}

###### Check the decorated object for a standard hook where the hook is `{attribute_name}`.

    $presenter->display_name; // Returns: $presenter->getObject()->call('display_name');

    {{ presenter.display_name }} // Returns: {{ presenter.getObject().call('display_name') }}

###### Return the decorated object's attribute named `{attribute_name}`.

    $presenter->display_name; // Returns: $presenter->getObject()->display_name;

    {{ presenter.display_name }} // Returns: {{ presenter.getObject().display_name }}

###### Returns: `mixed`

###### Arguments

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

$name

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The attribute name being attempted.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

###### Example

    $presenter->example; // Where example is not a property of $presenter

###### Twig

    {{ presenter.example }}


##### Presenter::__call()[](#the-basics/presenters/basic-usage/presenter-call)

The `__call` magic method will try running the `method` on the decorated object. Remember the `__call` function is only invoked when the method does not exist on the presenter itself. So this effectively maps decorated object methods to the presenter.

###### Returns: `mixed`

###### Arguments

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

$method

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The method name.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$arguments

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

An array of method arguments passed.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

###### Example

    $presenter->exampleMethod(); // Returns: $presenter->getObject()->exampleMethod();

###### Twig

    {{ presenter.exampleMethod() }}

<div class="alert alert-danger">**Caution:** Presenters globally block calls to **delete**, save, and update.</div>


##### Manually Decorating Objects[](#the-basics/presenters/basic-usage/manually-decorating-objects)

You can manually `decorate` an object with the `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Support\Decorator` class.


##### Decorator::decorate()[](#the-basics/presenters/basic-usage/manually-decorating-objects/decorator-decorate)

The `decorate` method decorates the object. It can also decorate an entire collection of presentable items.

###### Returns: `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Support\Presenter` or `\Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Collection`

###### Arguments

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

$value

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

mixed

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The presentable object or collection of presentable items.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

###### Example

    $decorated = $decorator->decorate($model);

<div class="alert alert-info">**Note:** Non-presentable values will be returned as is.</div>


##### Undecorating Values[](#the-basics/presenters/basic-usage/undecorating-values)

The `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Support\Decorator` class can also be used for obtaining the original undecorated values.


##### Decorator::undecorate()[](#the-basics/presenters/basic-usage/undecorating-values/decorator-undecorate)

The `undecorate` reverses the decoration method's action. This is helpful for wrapping API methods for objects inside the view layer.

###### Returns: `mixed`

###### Arguments

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

$value

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

mixed

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The presenter or collection of presenters.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

###### Example

    $original = $decorator->undecorate($model);

<div class="alert alert-info">**Note:** Non-presentable values will be returned as is.</div>


#### Writing Presenters[](#the-basics/presenters/writing-presenters)

Presenters are automatically generated for you when using the make stream command:

    php artisan make:stream stream_slug example.module.test

You can also create your own addon presenter in most cases by transforming the model class name into it's corresponding presenter class name:

    TestModel -> TestPresenter

In all other cases all you need to do is define your own `newPresenter` method on the `presentable` class:

    <?php namespace Anomaly\ExampleModule\Test;

    use Robbo\Presenter\PresentableInterface;
    use Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Support\Presenter;

    class TestObject implements PresenterInterface
    {

        /**
         * Return the presenter.
         *
         * @return string
         */
        public function newPresenter()
        {
            return new Presenter($this);
        }
    }

An example presenter looks like this:

    <?php namespace Anomaly\ExampleModule\Test;

    use Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Support\Presenter;

    class TestPresenter extends Presenter
    {

        /**
         * Return the full name.
         *
         * @return string
         */
        public function name()
        {
            return implode(' ', array_filter([$this->object->getFirstName(), $this->object->getLastName()]));
        }
    }

Now you can use this method in your API:

    $test->name();

Or view layer:

    {{ test.name() }}


### Routing[](#the-basics/routing)

This section will describe how to define routes in PyroCMS. It helps to know [how to route in Laravel](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/routing) already.


#### Laravel Routing[](#the-basics/routing/laravel-routing)

While most routing in Pyro will occur within your addon service provider you can still route as you normally would with Laravel using the `/routes` directory.

    Route::get('example', function () {
        return view('theme::hello');
    });

To learn more about native routing please refer to [Laravel documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/routing).


#### Addon Service Providers[](#the-basics/routing/addon-service-providers)

Most routing is specified within the relevant addon's service provider using the `$routes` and `$api` properties.

The most basic route definition looks like this:

    protected $routes = [
        'example/uri' => 'Example\ExampleModule\Http\Controller\ExampleController@example',
    ];


##### The Route Definition[](#the-basics/routing/addon-service-providers/the-route-definition)

Below is a list of all `routes` definition properties available.

Definitions are always keyed by the URI path/pattern like this:

    protected $routes = [
        'posts/{slug}' => $definition,
    ];

###### Properties

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

uses

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The `Controller\Class@method` string handling the response.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

as

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The name of the route.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

verb

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

any

</td>

<td>

The request verb to route. Available options are `get`, `post`, `put`, `patch`, `delete`, and `options`

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

middleware

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

[]

</td>

<td>

An array of additional middleware to run for the route.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

contraints

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

[]

</td>

<td>

An array of parameter constraints to force on any segment parameters.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

streams::addon

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The addon providing the route.

</td>

<td>

The dot namespace of the addon responsible for the route. This is used in setting the active module during a request.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>


### Views[](#the-basics/views)

Views in PyroCMS work exactly the same as [views in Laravel](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/views).

<div class="alert alert-danger">**Heads Up:** Pyro's default rendering engine is [Twig](https://twig.sensiolabs.org/).</div>


#### Path Hints[](#the-basics/views/path-hints)

To avoid having to use full paths to your views there are a number of path hints available. Hints are a namespace that prefixes the view path.

    "theme::hello" // path-to-your-active-theme/resources/views/hello.twig

    "anomaly.module.products::admin/products/index" // path-to-products-module/resources/views/admin/products/index.twig


##### Available Path Hints[](#the-basics/views/path-hints/available-path-hints)

All paths are relative to your application's base path.

*   `module`: {active_module_path}/resources/views/
*   `theme`: {active_theme_path}/resources/views/
*   `published`: /resources/{app_reference}/addons/
*   `app`: /resources/{app_reference}/views/
*   `storage`: /storage/streams/{app_reference}/
*   `shared`: /resources/views/
*   `root`: /

Addons also have path hints associated to them:

*   `vendor.module.example`: {addon_path}/resources/views/


##### Registering Path Hints[](#the-basics/views/path-hints/registering-path-hints)

You can use the `\Illuminate\View\Factory` class to register your own path hints:

    $factory->addNamespace('example', base_path('example/path');

Now you can use that path hint for views:

    view('example::my/view');


#### Basic Usage[](#the-basics/views/basic-usage)

This section will briefly go over how to render a view. For more information on rendering views please refer to [Laravel's documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/views).


##### Using Controllers[](#the-basics/views/basic-usage/using-controllers)

Controllers in Pyro all have Laravel's view factory pre-loaded for you to use directly:

    <?php namespace Anomaly\ExampleModule\Http\Controller;

    use Anomaly\ExampleModule\Widget\Contract\WidgetRepositoryInterface;
    use Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Http\Controller\PublicController;

    class WidgetsController extends PublicController
    {

        public function index(WidgetRepositoryInterface $widgets)
        {
            return $this->view->make(
                'anomaly.module.example::widgets/index',
                [
                    'widgets' => $widgets->all(),
                ]
            );
        }
    }


##### The View Helper[](#the-basics/views/basic-usage/the-view-helper)

You can also use the `view` helper function exactly the same as above like you normally would in Laravel from any class:

    return view(
        'anomaly.module.example::widgets/index',
        [
            'widgets' => $widgets->all(),
        ]
    );


#### Overriding Views[](#the-basics/views/overriding-views)

This section will go over how to cleanly override views that are in core addons or the streams-platform.


##### Addon Service Providers[](#the-basics/views/overriding-views/addon-service-providers)

You can [write a service provider](/documentation/streams-platform/latest#core-concepts/service-providers/writing-service-providers) and define view `overrides` as well as `mobile` only overrides there.

*   [Defining view overrides in addon service providers](/documentation/streams-platform/latest#core-concepts/service-providers/writing-service-providers/addonserviceprovider-overrides)
*   [Defining mobile only overrides in addon service providers](/documentation/streams-platform/latest#core-concepts/service-providers/writing-service-providers/addonserviceprovider-mobile)


##### Publishing Addons[](#the-basics/views/overriding-views/publishing-addons)

You can override views among other things by simply publishing the addon and modifying it's files. Publishing copies the addon's resources to your `resources/{app_reference}/addons/` directory so you can modify and commit them to your project.

    php artisan addon:publish anomaly.module.example

You can also omit the addon argument and publish _all_ addons:

    php artisan addon:publish

Now all you need to do is modify what you need and delete the rest!

<div class="alert alert-info">**Note:** The view system will use the original addon view if it does not exist in the published location.</div>


##### Theme Overrides[](#the-basics/views/overriding-views/theme-overrides)

When in use, themes can also override views by placing the view overrides in a specific directory.

For example you can override the following addon view:

    view('anomaly.module.example::widgets/index');

By placing the overriding view file in your active theme like so:

    {theme-path}/resources/views/addons/anomaly/example-widget/widgets/index.twig

The override directory in this case is `{theme-path}/resources/views/addons/anomaly/example-widget/` while the view path we are overriding is `widgets/index` and of course the `.twig` file extension is needed.
