---
title: Routing
---

### Routing

This section will describe how to define routes in PyroCMS. It helps to know [how to route in Laravel](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/routing) already.

#### Laravel Routing

While most routing in Pyro will occur within your addon service provider you can still route as you normally would with Laravel using the `/routes` directory.

    Route::get('example', function () {
        return view('theme::hello');
    });

To learn more about native routing please refer to [Laravel documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/routing).

#### Addon Service Providers

Most routing is specified within the relevant addon's service provider using the `$routes` and `$api` properties.

The most basic route definition looks like this:

    protected $routes = [
        'example/uri' => 'Example\ExampleModule\Http\Controller\ExampleController@example',
    ];

##### The Route Definition

Below is a list of all `routes` definition properties available.

Definitions are always keyed by the URI path/pattern like this:

    protected $routes = [
        'posts/{slug}' => $definition,
    ];

###### Properties

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

uses

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The `Controller\Class@method` string handling the response.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

as

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The name of the route.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

verb

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

any

</td>

<td>

The request verb to route. Available options are `get`, `post`, `put`, `patch`, `delete`, and `options`

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

middleware

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

[]

</td>

<td>

An array of additional middleware to run for the route.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

contraints

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

[]

</td>

<td>

An array of parameter constraints to force on any segment parameters.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

streams::addon

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The addon providing the route.

</td>

<td>

The dot namespace of the addon responsible for the route. This is used in setting the active module during a request.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>
