---
title: Views
---

### Views

Views in PyroCMS work exactly the same as [views in Laravel](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/views).

<div class="alert alert-danger">**Heads Up:** Pyro's default rendering engine is [Twig](https://twig.sensiolabs.org/).</div>

#### Path Hints

To avoid having to use full paths to your views there are a number of path hints available. Hints are a namespace that prefixes the view path.

    "theme::hello" // path-to-your-active-theme/resources/views/hello.twig

    "anomaly.module.products::admin/products/index" // path-to-products-module/resources/views/admin/products/index.twig

##### Available Path Hints

All paths are relative to your application's base path.

*   `module`: {active_module_path}/resources/views/
*   `theme`: {active_theme_path}/resources/views/
*   `published`: /resources/{app_reference}/addons/
*   `app`: /resources/{app_reference}/views/
*   `storage`: /storage/streams/{app_reference}/
*   `shared`: /resources/views/
*   `root`: /

Addons also have path hints associated to them:

*   `vendor.module.example`: {addon_path}/resources/views/

##### Registering Path Hints

You can use the `\Illuminate\View\Factory` class to register your own path hints:

    $factory->addNamespace('example', base_path('example/path');

Now you can use that path hint for views:

    view('example::my/view');

#### Basic Usage

This section will briefly go over how to render a view. For more information on rendering views please refer to [Laravel's documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/views).

##### Using Controllers

Controllers in Pyro all have Laravel's view factory pre-loaded for you to use directly:

    <?php namespace Anomaly\ExampleModule\Http\Controller;

    use Anomaly\ExampleModule\Widget\Contract\WidgetRepositoryInterface;
    use Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Http\Controller\PublicController;

    class WidgetsController extends PublicController
    {

        public function index(WidgetRepositoryInterface $widgets)
        {
            return $this->view->make(
                'anomaly.module.example::widgets/index',
                [
                    'widgets' => $widgets->all(),
                ]
            );
        }
    }

##### The View Helper

You can also use the `view` helper function exactly the same as above like you normally would in Laravel from any class:

    return view(
        'anomaly.module.example::widgets/index',
        [
            'widgets' => $widgets->all(),
        ]
    );

#### Overriding Views

This section will go over how to cleanly override views that are in core addons or the streams-platform.

##### Addon Service Providers

You can [write a service provider](/documentation/streams-platform/latest#core-concepts/service-providers/writing-service-providers) and define view `overrides` as well as `mobile` only overrides there.

*   [Defining view overrides in addon service providers](/documentation/streams-platform/latest#core-concepts/service-providers/writing-service-providers/addonserviceprovider-overrides)
*   [Defining mobile only overrides in addon service providers](/documentation/streams-platform/latest#core-concepts/service-providers/writing-service-providers/addonserviceprovider-mobile)

##### Publishing Addons

You can override views among other things by simply publishing the addon and modifying it's files. Publishing copies the addon's resources to your `resources/{app_reference}/addons/` directory so you can modify and commit them to your project.

    php artisan addon:publish anomaly.module.example

You can also omit the addon argument and publish _all_ addons:

    php artisan addon:publish

Now all you need to do is modify what you need and delete the rest!

<div class="alert alert-info">**Note:** The view system will use the original addon view if it does not exist in the published location.</div>

##### Theme Overrides

When in use, themes can also override views by placing the view overrides in a specific directory.

For example you can override the following addon view:

    view('anomaly.module.example::widgets/index');

By placing the overriding view file in your active theme like so:

    {theme-path}/resources/views/addons/anomaly/example-widget/widgets/index.twig

The override directory in this case is `{theme-path}/resources/views/addons/anomaly/example-widget/` while the view path we are overriding is `widgets/index` and of course the `.twig` file extension is needed.

---
title: Core Concepts
---

## Core Concepts

This section will go over the core concepts of the Streams Platform so that you can identify, understand, and apply them in your development.
