---
title: Installation
---

### Installation

The Streams Platform comes setup and ready right out of the box with PyroCMS. It's highly recommended to start projects that may not leverage the CMS aspects of PyroCMS with a general installation and remove what you don't need from there.

However, if you would like to install it in an existing Laravel application there are a couple things you need to do.

<div class="alert alert-warning">**Notice:** If you are using PyroCMS the Streams Platform is already installed for you!</div>

#### Install with Composer

First require the composer package by running `composer require anomaly/streams-platform` or adding the following line to your `composer.json` file:

    "anomaly/streams-platform": "1.3.x-dev"

#### Register the service provider

Next you need to register the service provider. To do this add the following service provider to the end of the `providers` section in `config/app.php`:

    Anomaly\Streams\Platform\StreamsServiceProvider::class

#### Register the kernels

The Streams Platform adds low level functionality to the HTTP and console kernels. In order for this to work properly you must register the kernels in the `bootstrap/app.php` file:

    $app->singleton(
        Illuminate\Contracts\Http\Kernel::class,
        'Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Http\Kernel'
    );

    $app->singleton(
        Illuminate\Contracts\Console\Kernel::class,
        'Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Console\Kernel'
    );

You're all set! You can now use addons just like PyroCMS as well as all of the other services and utilities within the Streams Platform.
