---
title: Introduction
---

@TODO

# Introduction

## What is the Streams Platform?

The Streams Platform is a [Composer package](https://getcomposer.org/packages/anomaly/streams-platform) that acts as the foundation or engine for PyroCMS.

Nearly every functionality in every addon for PyroCMS relies on the Streams Platform to do it's work. The Streams Platform is responsible for everything from [Table Builders](../ui/tables) to [Image](../core-principles/image) and [Asset](../core-principles/asset) pipelines to providing the actual addon layer itself. 

A top level summary of PyroCMS's architecture would be `PyroCMS = Laravel + Streams Platform + Addons`.

## What are streams?

We have 3 completely separate concepts that use the term "Streams" in it's name. (That OCD naming convention bites sometimes.)

#### Streams Data

Streams when used as a noun is usually referring to the structure/information in the Stream's database table(s). The records in a stream are referred to as `Entries`. 

#### Streams Platform

The Streams Platform as in the engine of Pyro is another framework basically like Laravel. Usually used by name or the abbreviation "SP" in discussion. Sometimes referred to as `Streams API` (not to be confused with the API module).

#### Streams Module

The Streams Module is a [PRO](https://pyrocms.com/pro) addon that let's you manage Streams Data via GUI. Typically you would have to make an addon and scaffold some streams (spoiled right?). However the Streams Module let's you do the same visually and has configurable overrides to customize UI. 
