---
title: Entry Routers
---

### Entry Routers

Entry routers assist in binding `named routes` to stream entries. This makes it much easier to override routing by simply defining another route with the same name.

The basic idea is as that instead of something like this in your code:

    {{ url('articles/' ~ category.slug ~ '/view/' ~ article.slug) }}

You can rely on entry routing to simply do this:

    {{ article.route('view') }}

And via API this would look like:

    $article->route('view');

#### Basic Usage

To get started with entry routing you must first define your routes with a specific naming pattern. Note this is not referring to the path but the route _name_. We'll use an `AddonServiceProvider` routing example:

    protected $routes = [
        "posts/{slug}"                                              => [
            'as'   => 'anomaly.module.posts::posts.view',
            'uses' => 'Anomaly\PostsModule\Http\Controller\PostsController@view',
        ],
    ];

Note the above route is named `anomaly.module.posts::posts.view`. This can be broken down into the addons `namespace`, then the entry's `stream` slug, and lastly the route `action`.

    {namespace}::{stream}.{action}

By calling `route($action)` on an entry model Pyro will lookup what addon the model belongs to and find use it's stream slug and action to return the route path.

##### EntryRouter::make()

The `make` method returns the entry model's matching route. The name variable can be simply an action or the stream slug and action of another named route within the same addon.

The entry's `route` method directly wraps `make` hence `$entry->route($action)`.

###### Returns: `string` or `null`

###### Arguments

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

$route

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The route name. Can be simply `action` if route is for the calling model or `stream.action` if route is in calling model's same addon.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$parameters

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

Query string parameters appended to the route.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

###### Example

    $article->route('view');

    $article->route('categories.index');

    // Equivalent long syntax.
    $article->getRouter()->make('view');

    $article->getRouter()->make('categories.index');

###### Twig

    {{ article.route('view') }}

    {{ article.route('categories.index') }}
