---
title: Forms
---

### Forms

Forms let you easily create and update model objects. Usually they are used with `streams` but are versatile enough to handle API forms, non-model forms, or any form requirements you have.

#### Builders

Form `builders` are the entry point for creating a form. All forms will use a `builder` to convert your basic component `definitions` into their respective classes.

##### Basic Usage

To get started building a form. First create a `FormBuilder` that extends the `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Ui\Form\FormBuilder` class.

When using the `make:stream` command form builders are created for you. A generated form builder looks like this:

    <?php namespace Example\TestModule\Test\Form;

    use Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Ui\Form\FormBuilder;

    class TestFormBuilder extends FormBuilder
    {

        /**
         * The form fields.
         *
         * @var array|string
         */
        protected $fields = [];

        /**
         * Fields to skip.
         *
         * @var array|string
         */
        protected $skips = [];

        /**
         * Additional validation rules.
         *
         * @var array|string
         */
        protected $rules = [];

        /**
         * The form actions.
         *
         * @var array|string
         */
        protected $actions = [];

        /**
         * The form buttons.
         *
         * @var array|string
         */
        protected $buttons = [];

        /**
         * The form options.
         *
         * @var array
         */
        protected $options = [];

        /**
         * The form sections.
         *
         * @var array
         */
        protected $sections = [];

        /**
         * The form assets.
         *
         * @var array
         */
        protected $assets = [];

    }

##### FormBuilder::$fields

Form `fields` are the primary building block of a form. Fields define the inputs for your form. If your form uses a stream model then most of the work can be automated for you. However you can also define fields 100% manually too.

**Example**

    protected $fields = [
        'database_driver'       => [
            'label'        => 'anomaly.module.installer::field.database_driver.label',
            'instructions' => 'anomaly.module.installer::field.database_driver.instructions',
            'type'         => 'anomaly.field_type.select',
            'value'        => env('DB_DRIVER', 'mysql'),
            'required'     => true,
            'rules'        => [
                'valid_database',
            ],
            'validators'   => [
                'valid_database' => [
                    'handler' => DatabaseValidator::class,
                    'message' => false,
                ],
            ],
            'config'       => [
                'options' => [
                    'mysql'    => 'MySQL',
                    'pgsql' => 'Postgres',
                    'sqlite'   => 'SQLite',
                    'sqlsrv'   => 'SQL Server',
                ],
            ],
        ],
        'database_host'         => [
            'label'        => 'anomaly.module.installer::field.database_host.label',
            'placeholder'  => 'anomaly.module.installer::field.database_host.placeholder',
            'instructions' => 'anomaly.module.installer::field.database_host.instructions',
            'type'         => 'anomaly.field_type.text',
            'value'        => 'localhost',
            'required'     => true,
        ],
        'database_name'         => [
            'label'        => 'anomaly.module.installer::field.database_name.label',
            'placeholder'  => 'anomaly.module.installer::field.database_name.placeholder',
            'instructions' => 'anomaly.module.installer::field.database_name.instructions',
            'value'        => env('DB_DATABASE', snake_case(strtolower(config('streams::distribution.name')))),
            'type'         => 'anomaly.field_type.text',
            'required'     => true,
        ],
    ];

##### FormBuilder::$skips

The `skips` property is for defining fields to skip. Simply include an array of field slugs.

**Example**

    protected $skips = [
        'example_field',
    ];

##### FormBuilder::$rules

The `rules` property is for defining additional field rules.

**Example**

    protected $rules = [
        'example_field' => [
    		'required',
    		'date:n-j-Y',
        ],
    ];

##### FormBuilder::$sections

Form `sections` help you organize your fields into different field group layouts.

**Example**

    protected $sections = [
        'license'       => [
            'fields' => [
                'license',
            ],
        ],
        'database'      => [
            'fields' => [
                'database_driver',
                'database_host',
                'database_name',
                'database_username',
                'database_password',
            ],
        ],
        'administrator' => [
            'fields' => [
                'admin_username',
                'admin_email',
                'admin_password',
            ],
        ],
        'application'   => [
            'fields' => [
                'application_name',
                'application_reference',
                'application_domain',
                'application_locale',
                'application_timezone',
            ],
        ],
    ];

##### FormBuilder::$actions

Form `actions` determine what your form does when submitted. Most actions assume the form saves and then does something else like redirect to a new form or the same form to continue editing the entry but they can do anything else you need like submitting to APIs or redirecting somewhere.

<div class="alert alert-info">**Note:** Actions extend UI buttons so some actions may use registered buttons to further automate themselves.</div>

**Example**

    protected $actions = [
        'save',
        'save_create',
    ];

##### FormBuilder::$buttons

Form `buttons` extend base UI buttons and allow you to add simple button links to your form. Form `buttons` do not submit the form.

**Example**

    protected $buttons = [
        'cancel',
        'view',
    ];

##### FormBuilder::$options

Form `options` help configure the behavior in general of the form. You can use options for toggling specific UI on or off, adding a simple title and description, or pushing data into the form view.

**Example**

    protected $options = [
        'redirect' => 'admin/products/view/{entry.id}'
    ];

##### FormBuilder::$assets

The `assets` property defines assets to load to load for the form.

**Example**

    protected $assets = [
        'scripts.js' => [
            'theme::js/forms/initialize.js',
            'theme::js/forms/validation.js',
        ],
        'styles.css' => [
            'theme::scss/forms/validation.scss',
        ]
    ];

##### Ajax Forms

You can easily make forms use ajax behavior by setting the `$ajax` property.

    protected $ajax = true;

You can also flag forms as ajax on the fly.

    $builder->setAjax(true);

Ajax forms are designed to be included in a modal by default but you can configure it to display like a normal form or however you like.

<div class="alert alert-danger">**In Development:** The Ajax API is still being developed. While ajax forms are usable, more robust JSON response information is still missing.</div>

##### Read-only Forms

To render the form as `read-only` just set the `$readOnly` flag on the `builder`.

    protected $readOnly = true;

You can also set this flag on the fly:

    $builder->setReadOnly(true);

##### Form Handlers

Form `handlers` are responsible for handling the business logic of the form. Generally this is to simply save the form.

The default form handler for example looks like this:

    <?php namespace Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Ui\Form;

    class FormHandler
    {

        /**
         * Handle the form.
         *
         * @param FormBuilder $builder
         */
        public function handle(FormBuilder $builder)
        {
            if (!$builder->canSave()) {
                return;
            }

            $builder->saveForm();
        }
    }

##### Writing Custom Handlers

You can use your own form handler by defining it in your form builder. Simply define the self handling class or a callable class string.

    protected $handler = \Example\Test\MyCustomHandler::class; // Assumes @handle

    protected $handler = 'Example\Test\AnotherCustomHandler@test';

Now in your form handler you can add your own logic.

    class MyCustomHandler
    {

        public function handle(MyCustomFormBuilder $builder)
        {
            if ($builder->hasFormErrors()) {
                return; // We have errors.. abandon ship!
            }

            // Do amazing stuff here.
        }
    }

<div class="alert alert-primary">**Pro Tip:** Handlers are called using the **Service Container** and support class and method injection.</div>

##### Form Models

Form `models` are used to determine the form repository to use and provide the model for the system to use when creating and updating an entry.

Form `models` are guessed based on the form builders class. If using `php artisan make:stream` the model property does not need to be set.

If you would like to or have to define the model yourself you can do so on the form `builder`.

    protected $model = \Anomaly\UsersModule\User\UserModel::class;

##### Form Repositories

Form `repositories` are used to create an entry when creating and to update an entry when editing. The repository is guessed based on the type of model used.

If you would like to or need to define the repository yourself you can do so on the form `builder`.

    protected $repository = \Example\Test\FancyFormRepository::class;

The form repository must implement `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Ui\Form\Contract\FormRepositoryInterface` and implement the following methods:

    /**
     * Find an entry or return a new one.
     *
     * @param $id
     * @return mixed
     */
    public function findOrNew($id);

    /**
     * Save the form.
     *
     * @param  FormBuilder $builder
     * @return bool|mixed
     */
    public function save(FormBuilder $builder);

##### Including Assets

Besides the obvious overriding views to include your own assets you can also specify assets to include with the `$assets` array.

Specify the assets to include per the collection they should be added to.

    protected $assets = [
        'scripts.js' => [
            'theme::js/form/initialize.js',
            'theme::js/form/example.js',
        ],
        'styles.css' => [
            'theme::scss/form/example.scss',
        ]
    ];

#### Fields

Form `fields` are the main building blocks of forms. They control the `inputs` first but also the way data is handled when saving and everything in between.

##### The Field Definition

Below is a list of all available field definition properties.

###### Properties

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

$slug

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The field definition key.

</td>

<td>

The field slug is used for naming the field input and identifying it amongst other fields.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$label

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The field assignment label or field name if available.

</td>

<td>

The input label.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$instructions

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The field assignment instructions or field instructions.

</td>

<td>

The input instructions.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$warning

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The field assignment warning or field warning.

</td>

<td>

The input warning.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$placeholder

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The field assignment placeholder or field placeholder.

</td>

<td>

The input placeholder.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$type

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The field type.

</td>

<td>

The namespace or slug of a field type to use.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$field

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The streams field slug.

</td>

<td>

The streams field slug to use for populating defaults.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$required

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

boolean

</td>

<td>

The required status of the field assignment.

</td>

<td>

A shortcut boolean flag to add `required` to the rules array.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$unique

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

boolean

</td>

<td>

The unique status of the field assignment.

</td>

<td>

A shortcut boolean flag to add `unique` to the rules array.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$rules

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

An array of additional Laravel validation rules.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$validators

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

An array of custom validators keyed by rule.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$prefix

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The prefix of the form.

</td>

<td>

The prefix helps when more than one form are displayed on a page.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$disabled

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

boolean

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

Determines whether the field will be disabled or not.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$enabled

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

boolean

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

Determines whether the field will be processed or not.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$readonly

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

boolean

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

Determines whether the field will be read only or not.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$hidden

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

boolean

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

Determines whether the field will be visibly hidden or not.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$config

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

A config array for the field type.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$attributes

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

An array of `key => value` HTML attributes. Any base level definition keys starting with `data-` will be pushed into attributes automatically.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$class

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

Varies by field type.

</td>

<td>

A class to append to the attributes.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$input_view

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

Varies by field type.

</td>

<td>

A prefixed view to use for the input.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$wrapper_view

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

Varies by field type.

</td>

<td>

A prefixed view to use for the field wrapper.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

#### Sections

Sections help you organize your fields into different field groups.

##### The Section Definition

Below is a list of all possible section definition properties available.

###### Properties

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

slug

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The definition key.

</td>

<td>

The section slug can be used to reference the section later.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

title

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

{vendor}.module.{module}::{slug}.title

</td>

<td>

The section title.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

description

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

{vendor}.module.{module}::{slug}.description

</td>

<td>

The section description.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

fields

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

The section fields.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

tabs

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

The section tab definitions. See below for more information.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

attributes

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

An array of `key => value` HTML attributes. Any base level definition keys starting with `data-` will be pushed into attributes automatically.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

view

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

The view to delegate the section to.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

##### The Tab Definition

Here is a list of all available tab properties.

###### Properties

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

slug

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The definition key.

</td>

<td>

The tab slug is used in it's HTML markup as part of an ID.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

title

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The tab title.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

stacked

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

boolean

</td>

<td>

`false`

</td>

<td>

If `true` then tabs will stack vertically.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

fields

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

The tab fields.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

##### Standard Sections

Standard sections simply stack fields on top of each other in a single group.

    protected $sections = [
        'database'      => [
            'title'  => 'Database Information',
            'fields' => [
                'database_driver',
                'database_host',
                'database_name',
                'database_username',
                'database_password'
            ]
        ],
        'administrator' => [
            'title'  => 'Admin Information',
            'fields' => [
                'admin_username',
                'admin_email',
                'admin_password'
            ]
        ],
    ];

##### Tabbed Sections

Tabbed sections allow separating fields in the section into tabs.

    protected $sections = [
        'general' => [
             'tabs' => [
                 'form'          => [
                     'title'  => 'module::tab.form',
                     'fields' => [
                         'form_name',
                         'form_slug',
                         'form_description',
                         'success_message',
                         'success_redirect'
                     ]
                 ],
                 'notification'  => [
                     'title'  => 'module::tab.notification',
                     'fields' => [
                         'send_notification',
                         'notification',
                         'notification_send_to',
                         'notification_cc',
                         'notification_bcc'
                     ]
                 ],
             ]
         ]
    ];

##### Section Views

You can also define a view to handle the entire section.

    protected $sections = [
        'general'      => [
            'view'  => 'module::form/general',
        ],
        'advanced'      => [
            'view'  => 'module::form/advanced',
        ],
    ];

#### Actions

Form `actions` determine what your form does when submitted. Most actions assume the form saves and then does something else like redirect to a new form or the same form to continue editing the entry.

##### The Action Definition

Below is a list of all action specific definition properties. Actions extend buttons so you can refer to [button documentation](#ui/buttons/the-button-definition) for a complete set of options for buttons.

###### Properties

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

slug

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The definition key.

</td>

<td>

The action becomes the submit button's name.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

redirect

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

Back to the form.

</td>

<td>

The action redirect URL.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

handler

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

A callable class string. This is useful when you want to include additional logic when a form is submitted using an action.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

##### Defining Actions

A `standard` action usually modifies the redirect but can also define a `handler` to perform extra logic too.

    protected $actions = [
        'button'   => 'save',
        'redirect' => 'admin/products/view/{entry.id}',
    ];

##### Using Registered Actions

There are a number of actions registered in the `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Ui\Form\Component\Action\ActionRegistry` class. To use any of these actions simply include their registered string slug.

    protected $actions = [
        'save',
    ];

The simple slug get's populated from the registered button like this:

    protected $actions = [
        'save' => [
            'button' => 'save',
            'text'   => 'streams::button.save'
        ],
    ];

##### Overriding Registered Actions

Just like other definitions either registered or automated, you can include more information in your definition to override things.

    protected $actions = [
        'save' => [
            'text' => 'Save Me!'
        ],
    ];

##### The Action Registry

Below are the basic registered actions. Note the button options that will in turn automate more action properties based on registered buttons. Actions may also simply be registered buttons themselves and allow default handling behavior. Experiment with it!

Registered actions can be found in `Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Ui\Form\Component\Action\ActionRegistry`.

    'update'         => [
        'button' => 'update',
        'text'   => 'streams::button.update'
    ],
    'save_exit'      => [
        'button' => 'save',
        'text'   => 'streams::button.save_exit'
    ],
    'save_edit'      => [
        'button' => 'save',
        'text'   => 'streams::button.save_edit'
    ],
    'save_create'    => [
        'button' => 'save',
        'text'   => 'streams::button.save_create'
    ],
    'save_continue'  => [
        'button' => 'save',
        'text'   => 'streams::button.save_continue'
    ],
    'save_edit_next' => [
        'button' => 'save',
        'text'   => 'streams::button.save_edit_next'
    ],

#### Options

Form `options` help configure the behavior in general of the form. Anything from toggling specific UI on or off to adding a simple title and description can be done with the form options.

    protected $options = [
        'title'     => 'My awesome form!',
        'form_view' => 'module::my/custom/form'
    ];

You can also set/add options from the API.

    $builder->addOption('url', 'http://domain.com/example/api');

##### Available Options

Below is a list of all available options for forms.

###### Properties

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

form_view

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

streams::form/form

</td>

<td>

The form view is the primary form layout view.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

wrapper_view

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

streams::blank

</td>

<td>

The wrapper view is the admin layout wrapper. This is the view you would override if you wanted to include a sidebar with your form for example.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

permission

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

{vendor}.module.{module}::{stream}.write

</td>

<td>

The permission string required to access the form.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

url

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

The route displaying the form (submits to itself).

</td>

<td>

The URL for the form submission. This is generally automated but varies depending on how the form is being used.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>
