---
title: Resolver
---

### Resolver

The Streams Platform provides a powerful value handler pattern that let's you defer the value or something to a `handler`. The `resolver` service makes it easy to resolve the value from such handlers.

The `resolver` is usually used in other parts of the system so it's helpful to understand how it works even though you may not use it directly.

#### Introduction

This section will show you what a resolver is and how to use it.

##### Handlers

Handlers is a generic term for a class that **handles** the value for something.

Where a typical attribute in an array might look like:

    $array = [
        'example' => 'Test',
    ];

A value `handler` might look like this:

    $array = [
        'example' => 'Example\TestHandler@value',
    ];

A value can also define a self handling handler:

    $array = [
        'example' => Example\TestHandler::class, // Assumes 'Example\TestHandler@handle'
    ];

#### Basic Usage

To start resolving values in your class you need to include the `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Support\Resolver` class.

##### Resolver::resolve()

The `resolve` method recursively resolves values within the `target` value. The `target` is called through the [Service Container](#core-concepts/service-container) and supports class and method injection.

###### Returns: `mixed`

###### Arguments

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

$target

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The value handler.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$arguments

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

The arguments to pass to the handler.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$options

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

Options for the resolver.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

###### Example

    $resolver->resolve('Example\Test@value', compact('entry'));

###### Available Options

*   `method` - The handler method when no method is defined. Defaults to `handle`.
