---
title: Valuation
---

### Valuation

The `value` service is a powerful class that determines the value of a target based on a predictable procedure of processing.

While you may not use this service on your own much it's important to understand as it's used heavily in the Streams Platform specifically where UI is concerned.

#### Basic Usage

To get started you will need to include the `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Support\Value` class in your own.

##### Value::make()

The `make` method makes the model value from the target value definition. Below are the steps taken in order from first to last:

1.  Checks for `view` in the `parameters` and returns it with the `entry` if found.
2.  Checks for `template` in the `parameters and parses it with the`entry` if found.
3.  Checks if the `entry` is an instance of `EntryInterface` and has a field field with slug `value`.
    *   If the `value` is a field it returns the field value.
    *   If the `value` is a relation it returns the relations `title_column`.
4.  Decorate the entry.
5.  Checks if the `value` is like `{term}.*` and renders the string like: `{{ {value}|raw }}`
6.  Evaluates the `value` with `\Anomaly\Streams\Platform\Support\Evaluator`.
7.  If the `entry` is `Arrayable` then run `toArray` on it.
8.  Wraps the `value` in the `wrapper` parameter. By default this is simply `{value}`. Note the value can be an array here
9.  If the `value` is a string. Parse it with the entry again.
10.  If the `value` is `*.*.*::*` then try translating it.
11.  If the value is parsable then try parsing it.
12.  Purifies the output unless `is_safe` parameter is `true`.

As you can see this flow and built in manipulation can allow for very powerful values with only an array. Compound this with resolvers and evaluators and you can start deferring logic for values or parts of the value to closures and handlers.. pretty cool right?

###### Returns: `mixed`

###### Arguments

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped">

<thead>

<tr>

<th>Key</th>

<th>Required</th>

<th>Type</th>

<th>Default</th>

<th>Description</th>

</tr>

</thead>

<tbody>

<tr>

<td>

$paramters

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string|array

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The value definition. If a string the parameters become the value string.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$entry

</td>

<td>

true

</td>

<td>

string|array

</td>

<td>

none

</td>

<td>

The subject model.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$term

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

string

</td>

<td>

entry

</td>

<td>

The term to use in valuation strings.

</td>

</tr>

<tr>

<td>

$payload

</td>

<td>

false

</td>

<td>

array

</td>

<td>

null

</td>

<td>

Additional payload to pass along during the process.

</td>

</tr>

</tbody>

</table>

###### Example

    // A simple example
    $value->make('name', $entry); // Ryan Thompson

    // A more complex example
    $value = [
        'wrapper'     => '
                <strong>{value.file}</strong>
                <br>
                <small class="text-muted">{value.disk}://{value.folder}/{value.file}</small>
                <br>
                <span>{value.size} {value.keywords}</span>',
        'value'       => [
            'file'     => 'entry.name',
            'folder'   => 'entry.folder.slug',
            'keywords' => 'entry.keywords.labels|join',
            'disk'     => 'entry.folder.disk.slug',
            'size'     => 'entry.size_label',
        ],
    ];

    $value->make($value, compact('entry'));
