---
title: Callbacks
---

# Callbacks

<div class="documentation__toc"></div>

@TODO confirm with code / review

## Callbacks

There are a number of [callbacks](../core-concepts/callbacks) available in the Streams Platform designed to extend core functionality. 


## Addon Management

### Module Installing

The `installing` callback is fired after a module is installing. The installing `module` is passed to the callback.

### Module Installed

The `installed` callback is fired after a module is installed. The installed `module` is passed to the callback.

### Module Uninstalling

The `uninstalling` callback is fired after a module is uninstalling. The uninstalling `module` is passed to the callback.

### Module Uninstalled

The `uninstalled` callback is fired after a module is uninstalled. The uninstalled `module` is passed to the callback.

### Module Migrating

The `migrating` callback is fired after a module is migrating. The migrating `module` is passed to the callback.

### Module Migrated

The `migrated` callback is fired after a module is migrated. The migrated `module` is passed to the callback.

### Extension Installing

The `installing` callback is fired after a extension is installing. The installing `extension` is passed to the callback.

### Extension Installed

The `installed` callback is fired after a extension is installed. The installed `extension` is passed to the callback.

### Extension Uninstalling

The `uninstalling` callback is fired after a extension is uninstalling. The uninstalling `extension` is passed to the callback.

### Extension Uninstalled

The `uninstalled` callback is fired after a extension is uninstalled. The uninstalled `extension` is passed to the callback.

### Extension Migrating

The `migrating` callback is fired after a extension is migrating. The migrating `extension` is passed to the callback.

### Extension Migrated

The `migrated` callback is fired after a extension is migrated. The migrated `extension` is passed to the callback.


## Form Builders

### Ready

The `ready` callback is fired when form builder is ready and about to start the build process. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Built

The `built` callback is fired after the form builder has been built but not yet handled the request. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Post

The `post` callback is fired after the form builder has been built and is about to handle the POST request. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Posting

The `posting` callback is fired just before handling the POST request. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Posted

The `posted` callback is fired just after handling the POST request. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Validating

The `validating` callback is fired just before validating the form. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Validation

The `validation` callback is fired just after validating the form. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Saving

The `saving` callback is fired just before saving the form entry. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Saved

The `saved` callback is fired just after saving the form entry. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Make

The `make` callback is fired after the form builder has been built and POST request handled but before making a view response if applicable. The form `builder` is passed to the callback.

## Multiple Form Builder

[Multiple form builders](../ui/forms/multiple-forms) inherit all of the callbacks from normal standard builders.

### Saving Child Form

The `saving_{$slug}` callback is fired just before saving the child form entry. The child form `builder` is passed to the callback.

### Saved Child Form

The `saved_{$slug}` callback is fired just after saving the child form entry. The child form `builder` is passed to the callback.


## Table Builders

### Querying

The `querying` callback is fired at the beginning of the query process for table builders. The table `builder` instance and the `query` builder object are passed to the callback.

### Queried

The `queried` callback is fired after the query process but before returning results for table builders. The table `builder` instance and the `query` builder object are passed to the callback.

### Row Deleted

The `row_deleted` callback is fired after a table row has been deleted using the `delete` action. The table `builder`, `model`, and row `entry` are all passed to the callback.

### Rows Deleted

The `rows_deleted` callback is fired after all table rows are deleted when using the `delete` action. The table `builder`, `model`, and deleted `count` are all passed to the callback.

### Reordered

The `reordered` callback is fired after table rows are reordered when using the `reorder` action. The table `builder`, `model`, and row `count` are all passed to the callback.


## Tree Builders

### Querying

The `querying` callback is fired at the beginning of the query process for tree (list) builders. The tree `builder` instance and the `query` builder object are passed to the callback.
